# A-Statistical-Framework-for-analyzing-Domestic-Violence-legal-section-using-NLP
A Statistical Framework for analyzing Domestic Violence legal section using NLP

What is Domestic Violence? A Domestic Violence is a pattern of behavior used by one partner to gain power and control over another partner within an intimate relationship. Domestic Violence is not only about physical violence, but also emotional, psychological, sexual and financial abuses are included which are the manipulation tactics that can deeply impact a person's well-being and autonomy.
As the thesis is about Domestic Violence cases, it is necessary to collect the Legal Document under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 498A.
The objective of this thesis is about some following steps such as Text Acquisition, Pre-processing and Cleaning the Legal Document, Dependency parsing and Relationship Extraction and Text similarity analysis. 
The methodology if this thesis is divided into two parts. Phase 1 is to analyze the Legal document under IPC Section 498A and Phase 2 is to analyze the appealed case files over Domestic Violence. In Phase 1, the law under IPC Section 498A is collected from the webiste (https://www.indiacode.nic.in/show-data?actid=AC_CEN_5_23_00037_186045_1523266765688&sectionId=46286&sectionno=498A&orderno=562). Then the document is pre-processed by using the techniques such as Tokenization, Stop-words Removing, POS Tagging. After filtering the document, a Dependency Graph is generated to visualize the relationship among words with their corresponding relationship name which is generated from the english grammatical rule. Next is the step of generating the dependency matrix. The dependency matrix indicates whether any relation between each two words exists or not. The values of the dependency matrix are in the form of binary means 1 and 0 where 1 indicates the existance of relationship and 0 indicates no existance of relationship. Based on the Dependency matrix, the two word relationship is generated to visualize the relatable words with their corresponding relationship. This two word relationship is the generated rule over here.
Now, the Phase 2 part is about analyzing the collected appealed case files. The user chosen appealed case file is extracted from the list of case files with it's corresponding serial number. The files are in the form of PDF file. Theen the texts inside the PDF file is extracted and the similarity scores of each two adjacent sentences are calculated in the form of floating point values and the percentage values as well. The generated percentage values indicates how close the sentence pairs are with the generated rule from Phase 1. And finally, a Heatmap is generated from the similarity matrix which is derived from the similarity scores of each two adjacent sentences. The Heatmap is visualized with it's corresponding color range based on the case file.
This thesis aimed to address the multifaceted challenges associated with understanding and analyzing domestic violence incidents, offering a comprehensive approach that harnesses the power of advanced technologies.
